What is a popular misconception about self defense?Self-defense stops when the attacker is down/out. IE if you shoot a person threatening you with a gun and then proceed to "double tap" them when they're down you'll lose the self-defense aspect and move towards assault territory. Same thing happens with a fist fight; if I put you down on the ground I can't come over and just start kicking the shit out of you since the initial threat has been neutralized.A 1 hour self defense seminar will do fuck all for you. It requires a lot of time and energy to commit the techniques to muscle memory. Also they must be practiced in a live setting against a resisting opponent.I think a lot of people over estimate “I’ll just punch em in the face” as a means of thinking they’d be good.  Frankly you’ll probably not be able to land a square punch and honestly, even if you do, you’re probably not going to do as much damage as you think.  Like the one-shot-knock-out-blow probably isn’t in the cards for an untrained person."Self Defense" isn't a pure law that covers all, and different areas of different rules/laws around it.

Like in my State, I might have a "responsibility to egress" which means I have to make every reasonable attempt to flee, and only kill in Self-Defense if that is not reasonably possible to egress. In the State next door, they might have "Stand your ground" where there is no need to ever flee, you are allowed to defend yourself right where you currently stand. Other States might have Castle Doctrine, others might not. Etc.

Also, if you defend yourself with a firearm, expect that firearm to be gone for years and years, sitting in an evidence locker during trial and sometimes for a long time after. Basically consider that firearm "gone" for the foreseeable future. Many people expect all their property returned to them immediately... but that's now how it works.Firearms are great self defense tools, but the number of idiots walking around who have never been trained on using them is terrifying.  Go to a range and try to hit a target with a hand gun.  Not so easy is it?  Now imagine there's a person threatening your family, it's dark, and you're half asleep.  Now you understand why guns are very dangerous in untrained hands.

That sales guy at your local store should have insisted you also sign up for a course.